---
title: LSP - Language Server Protocol
id: lsp
slug: /lsp
---

### LSP - Language Server Protocol

Hey folks, have you ever heard of the **Language Server Protocol (LSP)**? If you're a developer,
it's definitely something you should know about! LSP is a communication protocol that allows text
editors and IDEs to communicate with language servers and provide advanced language-specific
features and functionality to developers.

### What is LSP?

So, what exactly is LSP and how does it work? In a nutshell, LSP is a way of enabling text editors
and IDEs to provide advanced code analysis and feedback to developers. It's like having a personal
coding assistant that can help you catch errors, suggest improvements, and provide other useful
information about your code.

### How does LSP work?

For example, let's say you're working on a Java project in your favorite text editor. With LSP, your
editor can communicate with a Java language server that analyzes your code and provides helpful
suggestions, like code completion or error highlighting. This can save you time and help you write
better code!

### Why use LSP?

But LSP isn't just limited to Java - it works with many different programming languages, including
Python, TypeScript, and more. And because it's a standardized protocol, it can be used with many
different text editors and IDEs, so you can use the tools you're most comfortable with.

In summary, LSP is a powerful tool that can make programming easier and more efficient by providing
advanced language-specific features and functionality to text editors and IDEs. Whether you're a
seasoned developer or just starting out, LSP is definitely something worth checking out!

### Actionnnnn

```java
import java.util.List;

public class HelloWorldLanguageServer {
    public List<String> codeCompletion(String fileName, String fileContent, int line, int character) {
        // Parse the code in the specified file and create an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)
        // Analyze the AST to identify the context of the code being edited
        // Use the context to generate a list of code completion suggestions
        // Return the list of suggestions to the text editor or IDE
        return List.of("System.out.println(\"Hello, World!\");");
    }
}
```

Imagine you're writing a Java program in your favorite text editor or IDE, and you want to use the
**Language Server Protocol (LSP)** to get code completion suggestions. You can create a Java class,
let's call it `HelloWorldLanguageServer`, that provides a method called `codeCompletion`. This
method takes as input a file name, file content, line number, and character position within the
file.

When you call the `codeCompletion` method, it does some magic behind the scenes. First, it parses
the code in the specified file and creates an **Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)**. An AST is basically a
fancy data structure that represents the structure of the code in a way that a computer can
understand.

Next, the method analyzes the AST to identify the context of the code being edited. For example, if
you're typing in a for loop, the method might identify that you're iterating over an array of
integers.

Based on this context, the method generates a list of code completion suggestions. For example, it
might suggest completing the for loop statement, or suggest a method to use on the integer array.

In this example, the method is very simple, and just returns a list of suggestions that includes a
`System.out.println` statement that prints the message "Hello, World!". This is just an example, but
in a real-world scenario, the suggestions returned by the `codeCompletion` method would be more
sophisticated and based on a more comprehensive analysis of the code.

Overall, using LSP and a language server like the one provided by the `HelloWorldLanguageServer`
class can help you write code faster and more efficiently, by providing intelligent code completion
suggestions based on the context of your code.
